
	     Update on 68000 Tiny BASIC - April 1993


Since my article was first published in the February 1985 issue
of Dr. Dobb's Journal I've received some interesting feedback
from several of Dr. Dobb's readers. Unfortunately I haven't had
time to implement most of the suggested improvements so far.
(Looking back at this in 1993, my feeling is that it is probably
sufficient as it is. Since no one has asked me to extend it
further, I assume that it adequately fills the need it was
originally designed for.)


Software Updates

I have managed to put two improvements into the interpreter.
Version 1.1 included a change made by Marvin Lipford of Edmonton,
Alberta that improves the PRINT statement. You can now use the
'$' character to send control codes to your terminal. This is
usually used to move the terminal's cursor around. For instance:

	  PRINT $27,'=',$32+Y,$32+X,

will move the cursor to the position indicated by the X and Y
variables on most Lear-Siegler and TeleVideo terminals. The
number following the $ sign is the control code's decimal value.
For instance, $27 sends an ASCII ESCape character.

Version 1.2 (the version published here) also contains a bug fix
provided by Rick Murray of Sacramento, California that fixes a
problem in the interpreter's multiplication subroutine.

There is also a version 1.3 produced by S. Haraguchi of Japan
that works with the CP/M-68K operating system. This version was
published in the February 1986 issue of I/O Magazine, a Japanese
computer magazine. (This issue also contained a reprint of my
original Dr. Dobb's Journal article.) Since I don't have
CP/M-68K, I haven't been able to try out this version.


Suggested Improvements

Mr. John Byrns pointed out in a letter in the July 1985 issue of
Dr. Dobb's Journal that the RND function doesn't work very well.
The original random number generator is, quite frankly, atrocious
(as you can see in my comments in the source code). This should
be replaced by a generator such as the one by Dr. Michael
McLaughlin published in the November 1985 Dr. Dobb's Journal.

The letters column in the August 1985 Dr. Dobb's Journal contains
an excellent analysis by Mr. Robert Grappel of some of the
interpreter's workings (Mr. Grappel's name was familiar to many
in the early days of microcomputers). He suggests many good ways
to speed up the interpreter's operation without increasing its
size significantly.

I hope to add both Mr. Byrns' and Mr. Grappel's improvements
sometime in the future, but other projects are keeping me busy
for the moment. (This comment was made in 1986; I doubt now that
I will ever expend any more effort on it.  Anyone else is quite
welcome to improve the code -- I'd love to hear about any
improvements!)


Availability

The bulletin board systems listed in the original article still
exist but I don't think they carry this software any longer. The
only bulletin board I know of that carries this software is the
Circuit Cellar Ink BBS at 203-871-1988. If you have access to
Compuserve you can send mail to my Compuserve ID (see below), and
I could then send you the files by return Compuserve Mail. (I
haven't checked recently, but the code used to be available in
the Computer Language Forum.) Although I still prefer that you
get the interpreter source code from a bulletin board system or
Compuserve, you can still get the code from me in IBM-PC 3.5"
format [1996].

	  Gordon Brandly
	  12147 - 51 Street
	  Edmonton AB  T5W 3G8
	  Canada
	[address updated in 1996]

	  Compuserve: 70147,1612
	  Internet:   gordo@datanet.ab.ca

